+++
title = "R@ Slayer (Pronounced Rat Slayer)"
date = 2020-05-21T12:00:00-05:00

# Tags: can be used for filtering projects.
# Example: `tags: ["machine-learning", "deep-learning"]`
tags = ["game", "c++"]

# Project summary to display on homepage.
summary = "2D Rogue-like game written in C++."

# Optional image to display on homepage.
image_preview = ""

# Optional external URL for project (replaces project detail page).
external_link = ""

# Does the project detail page use source code highlighting?
highlight = true
+++

R@ Slayer is a game I have been writing since freshman year of undergrad. It will forever be stuck in development limbo. However, it is typically one of my go to projects whenever I learn a new programming language or graphics library.

Originally, it was created as a final project for my second introductory Computer Science class in undergrad. It was a group project that I had two groupmates for, one of which was [Sly](https://www.twitch.tv/slydude_). The original version was written using curses for the interface. Maze floors were generated by recursive backtracking. A variety of items were used for interacting with the dungeon: an upgradeable lantern to be able to see more of the dungeon, bombs and big bombs to destroy walls, a compass to guide the player to the staircase, and coins in order to afford all these extravagent amenities. The game could be saved and loaded. 

A second, graphical, version of the game was implemented using Python with Pygame for the "engine". Textures and sprites were borrowed from a [Minecraft texture pack](https://resourcepack.net/ovos-rustic-resource-pack/). Some of the features, such as the lantern, were not included in favor of a more advanced visibility system (which never got implemented). Cheat codes were included in this version of the game (for debugging purposes, of course). I had intended to make this project a group effort, so the repo belongs to a group formed at HackNC. This perpetually incomplete version of the game can be found [here](https://github.com/fluffyAntenna/crispy-spoon).

The [third iteration](https://github.com/mythWizard/RatSlayer) of the game is currently in development limbo. This one returns to C++ with Allegro 5 for graphics and a homebrew "engine" on top of it. Health potions have been introduced as well as a leveling system. Menus for stores have been reintroduced and a pause menu has been created (however there is still no text on these screens). It still uses assets from the Minecraft texture pack for the purpose of creation and testing of the game.